# Writing the sample enclave

## Prerequisites
This tutorial assumes that you have completed the [Running your first enclave](running-hello-world.md) tutorial.

## Introduction

In this tutorial, we will cover the following:

* Set up a new Conclave project using [Conclave Init](conclave-init.md).
* Modify the files to create an implementation of the Conclave *sample app* which we explored in the
  [previous tutorial](running-hello-world.md).

We will be leveraging Conclave's built-in web host to write our Conclave app. To learn more about this, see
[Conclave web host](conclave-web-host.md). You may want to implement your own host if you need custom functionality or
you want to incorporate it into an existing server application of some kind. To learn more about that, see
[Writing your own enclave host](writing-your-own-enclave-host.md).

The client will be a command line app. This is just for simplicity, and you are free to implement
your client as a GUI app or integrate it with some other program.

## Project Setup
Start by creating a new Conclave project using [Conclave Init](conclave-init.md).
```bash
java -jar <path to sdk>/tools/conclave-init.jar \
    --package com.example.tutorial \
    --enclave-class-name ReverseEnclave \
    --target <your project directory>
    
cd <your project directory>
```

!!! note
    * Conclave Init will create the project directory for you, so there's no need to create it beforehand.
    * See the [Conclave Init](conclave-init.md#appendix-description-of-generated-files) reference page for a description
    of the files generated by Conclave Init.

## Configure Signing Keys

Modify the `enclave/build.gradle` to specify the signing methods for each of the build types. You could keep your
private key in a file for both debug and release enclaves if you like, but some organisations require private keys to
be held in an offline system or HSM. In that case, configure it like this:

```groovy hl_lines="5-27"
conclave {
    productID = 1
    revocationLevel = 0

    // For simulation, we want to use the default signing type of dummyKey so
    // we do not need to specify a configuration.

    debug {
        signingType = privateKey
        signingKey = file("../signing/sample_private_key.pem")
    }

    release {
        // To protect our release private key with an HSM, the enclave needs to be built in stages.
        // Firstly, build the signing material:
        //  ./gradlew prepareForSigning -PenclaveMode="Release"
        //
        // Generate a signature from the signing material.
        //
        // Finally build the signed enclave:
        //  ./gradlew build -PenclaveMode="Release"
        //
        signingType = externalKey
        signatureDate = new Date(1970, 0, 1)
        mrsignerSignature = file("../signing/signature.bin")
        mrsignerPublicKey = file("../signing/external_signing_public.pem")
    }
}
```

The example configuration above specifies different [signing configurations](signing.md#signing-configurations) for
each of the different build types.

* Simulation builds use the default dummy key.
* Debug builds use a private key stored in a file.
* Release builds use a private key managed by some external signing process.

The ```hello-world``` sample in the SDK contains some example keys that can be used with the ```privateKey```
and ```externalKey``` signing types. These can be found in ```hello-world/signing/```.

| Key Files | Description |
| :----     | :----       |
| sample_private_key.pem | A 3072 bit RSA private key that can be used to test the ```privateKey``` signing type |
| external_signing_*.pem | An AES encrypted 3072 bit RSA public/private key pair that can be used to test the ```externalKey``` signing type. The private key can be accessed with the password '12345' |

Copy the `signing` directory from the SDK into your project and/or update the paths in the enclave `build.gradle`.
Alternatively you can provide or [generate your own](signing.md#generating-keys-for-signing-an-enclave) keys.

!!! important
    These keys aren't whitelisted by Intel so you can't use them for real release builds.
    Only use these sample keys for the tutorial. Don't use them for signing your own enclaves!


## Create a new subclass of `Enclave`

Enclaves are similar to standalone programs and as such have an equivalent to a "main class". This class must be a
subclass of [`Enclave`](api/-conclave/com.r3.conclave.enclave/-enclave/index.html).

Replace the contents of `/enclave/src/.../ReverseEnclave.java` with the following:

```java
package com.example.tutorial.enclave;

import com.r3.conclave.enclave.Enclave;

/**
 * Simply reverses the bytes that are passed in.
 */
public class ReverseEnclave extends Enclave {

    private String reverse(String input) {
        var builder = new StringBuilder(input.length());
        for (var i = input.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            builder.append(input.charAt(i));
        }
        return builder.toString();
    }

    @Override
    protected void receiveMail(EnclaveMail mail, String routingHint) {
        // First, decode mail body as a String.
        var stringToReverse = new String(mail.getBodyAsBytes());
        // Reverse it and re-encode to UTF-8 to send back.
        var reversedEncodedString = reverse(stringToReverse).getBytes();
        // Get the post office object for responding back to this mail and use it to encrypt our response.
        var responseBytes = postOffice(mail).encryptMail(reversedEncodedString);
        postMail(responseBytes, routingHint);
    }
}
```


!!! tip
    You'll notice that the enclave code is using the `var` syntax that was introduced in Java 10. That's because the
    enclave environment supports Java 11 by default!

We override `receiveMail` so that the enclave can process the mail it receives from the remote clients via the web-based
host server. Here we just reverse the contents of the mail body and reverse it as a string.

!!! tip
    In a real app you would use the byte array to hold serialised data structures. You can use whatever data formats you
    like. You could use a simple string format or a binary format like protocol buffers.

Since we have replaced the enclave code, the enclave unit tests will fail. You may want to delete the file `ReverseEnclaveTest.java`
or comment out the test code. We will come back to it later.

## Encrypted messaging

The enclave isn't of much use to the host, because the host already trusts itself. It's only useful to remote clients
that want to use the enclave for computation without having to trust the host machine or software.

Conclave provides an API for this called Mail. Conclave Mail handles all the encryption for you, but leaves it up to
you how the bytes themselves are moved around. We're using REST via the provided web server but you could use a
gRPC API, JMS message queues, a simple TCP socket, or even files.

!!! info
    [Learn more about the design of Conclave Mail](architecture.md#mail), and [compare it to TLS](mail.md).

### Receiving and posting mail in the enclave

The `receiveMail` method that we implemented above has a routing hint string parameter. It's provided by the host
and it helps the host route replies when dealing with multiple clients. It's passed into `postMail` when the enclave
posts a reply.

#### Mail headers

The first parameter is an `EnclaveMail`. This object gives us access to the body bytes that the client sent, but it
also exposes some other header fields:

1. A _topic_. This can be used to distinguish between different streams of mail from the same client. It's a string and
   can be thought of as equivalent to an email subject. Topics are scoped per-sender and are not global. The
   client can send multiple streams of related mail by using a different topic for each stream, and it can do this
   concurrently. The topic is not parsed by Conclave and, to avoid replay attacks, should never be reused for an unrelated set of mails in the future. A good
   value might thus contain a random UUID. Topics may be logged and used by your software to route or split mail streams
   in useful ways.
1. The _sequence number_. Starting from zero, this is incremented by one for every mail delivered on a topic. Conclave will
   automatically reject messages if this doesn't hold true, thus ensuring to the client that the stream of related
   mail is received by the enclave in the order they were sent, and that the host is unable to re-order or drop them.
1. The _envelope_. This is a slot that can hold any arbitrary byte array the sender likes. It's a holding zone for
   app specific data that should be authenticated but unencrypted.

**These header fields are available to the host and therefore should not contain secrets**. It may seem odd to have
data that's unencrypted, but it's often useful for the client, host and enclave to collaborate in various ways related
to storage and routing of data. Even when the host is untrusted it may still be useful for the client to send data
that is readable by the host and enclave simultaneously, but which the host cannot tamper with. Inside the enclave
you can be assured that the header fields contain the values set by the client, because they're checked before
`receiveMail` is invoked.

In addition to the headers there is also the _authenticated sender public key_. This is the public key of the client that
sent the mail. Like the body it's encrypted so that the host cannot learn the client identities. It's called "authenticated"
because the encryption used by Conclave means you can trust that the mail was encrypted by an entity holding the private
key matching this public key. If your enclave recognises the public key this feature can be used as a form of user authentication.

In this simple tutorial we only care about the body. We reverse the bytes in the mail body and then create a response
mail that will be encrypted to the sender. It contains the reversed bytes. We use the `postOffice` method to do this. It
gives us back a post office object, which is a factory for creating encrypted mail. Because we want to create a
response, we pass in the original mail to `postOffice` and it will give us an instance which is configured to encrypt mail
back to the sender. It will also use the same topic as the original mail. `encryptMail` will encrypt the reversed bytes
and add on the authenticated header. The resulting mail bytes are passed to `postMail` which delivers it to the host.
It will emerge in a callback we're about to configure.

!!! tip
    You can post mail anytime and to anyone you like. It doesn't have to be a response to the sender, you can post
    multiple mails at once and you can post mails inside `receiveFromUntrustedHost` (i.e. during a local call).

### Threading

In this tutorial we won't write a multi-threaded enclave. If you want to do this, you'll need to override the
`boolean isThreadSafe()` method in the `Enclave` class (use `override val threadSafe: Boolean get() = true` in Kotlin).
This tells Conclave to allow multiple threads into the enclave simultaneously. You're required to opt-in to allowing
multi-threading to avoid accidents when someone writes a simple enclave that isn't thread safe, and forgets that the host
is malicious and can enter your code with multiple threads simultaneously even if you aren't ready for it, corrupting
your application level data via race conditions. By blocking multi-threading until you indicate readiness, the hope
is that some types of attack can be avoided. See the page on [enclave threading](threads.md) to learn more.

## Remote attestation

Before we continue onto the client, we first need to quickly talk about remote attestation and why it's important.

There's no point in using an enclave to protect purely local data, as the data must ultimately come from the
(assumed malicious/compromised) host in that scenario. That's why you need remote attestation, which lets an enclave
prove its identity to the third parties who will upload secret data. If this paragraph doesn't make
sense please review the [Architecture overview](architecture.md) and the [Enclaves](enclaves.md) section.

Before a client can set up communication with an enclave it must first get its remote attestation object, or its
`EnclaveInstanceInfo`. How a client gets hold of enclave's `EnclaveInstanceInfo` depends on the host. It could be a
REST endpoint, which is what we'll be using, or as a file downloaded out of band.

The `EnclaveInstanceInfo` has a useful `toString` function that will print out something like this:

```text
Remote attestation for enclave F86798C4B12BE12073B87C3F57E66BCE7A541EE3D0DDA4FE8853471139C9393F:
  - Mode: SIMULATION
  - Code signing key hash: 01280A6F7EAC8799C5CFDB1F11FF34BC9AE9A5BC7A7F7F54C77475F445897E3B
  - Public signing key: 302A300506032B65700321000568034F335BE25386FD405A5997C25F49508AA173E0B413113F9A80C9BBF542
  - Public encryption key: A0227D6D11078AAB73407D76DB9135C0D43A22BEACB0027D166937C18C5A7973
  - Product ID: 1
  - Revocation level: 0

Assessed security level at 2020-07-17T16:31:51.894697Z is INSECURE
  - Enclave is running in simulation mode.
```

The hash in the first line is the *measurement*. This is a hash of the code of the enclave. It includes both all
the Java code inside the enclave as a fat-JAR, and all the support and JVM runtime code required. As such it will
change any time you alter the code of your enclave, the version of Conclave in use or the mode
(simulation/debug/release) of the enclave. The enclave measurement should be stable across builds and machines, so
clients can audit the enclave by repeating the Gradle build and comparing the value they get in the
`EnclaveInstanceInfo` against what the build process prints out.

!!! tip
    1. All this data is available via individual getters on the `EnclaveInstanceInfo` so you should never feel a need to
       parse the output of `toString`.
    2. `EnclaveInstanceInfo` is an interface so you can easily build mock attestations in your tests.
    3. When not in simulation mode the timestamp is signed by Intel and comes from their servers.

An instance has a security assessment, which can change in response to discovery of vulnerabilities in the
infrastructure (i.e. without anything changing about the host or enclave itself). As we can see this enclave isn't
actually considered secure yet because we're running in simulation mode still. An enclave can be `SECURE`, `STALE`,
or `INSECURE`. An assessment of `STALE` means there is a software/firmware/microcode update available for the platform
that improves security in some way. The client may wish to observe when this starts being reported and define a
time span in which the remote enclave operator must upgrade.

An attestation doesn't inherently expire but because the SGX ecosystem is always moving, client code will typically have
some frequency with which it expects the host code to refresh the `EnclaveInstanceInfo`. At present this is done by
stopping/closing and then restarting the enclave.

## Run the host and enclave

We should be ready to run the host web server from the command line.

```bash
./gradlew host:bootJar
java -jar host/build/libs/host-mock.jar
```

!!! note
    Mock is configured to be the default mode in `host/build.gradle`, which is why the host jar name contains the "mock"
    string.

The Conclave host web server uses Spring Boot so you will see the Spring logo as the web server starts up. Once it's
done starting up it will be ready to communicate with the client on http://localhost:8080.

!!! warning
    Even though we use Conclave mail which does the encryption and authentication for us, when using the Conclave
    host web server it's still important to use HTTPS for anything other than internal development. The web host
    protocol uses a unique correlation ID per client which must be encrypted over HTTPS. Setting up a HTTPS
    connection is beyond the scope of this tutorial but you may wish to look at configuring Spring Boot or setting
    up a reverse proxy such as Nginx or Apache.

```text
  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::                (v2.4.2)
```

During the build you should see output like this:

```text
> Task :enclave:generateEnclaveMetadataSimulation
Succeed.
Enclave code hash:   61AE6A28838CE9EFBE16A7078F9A506D69BBA70B69FAD229F1FBDB45AA786109
Enclave code signer: 4924CA3A9C8241A3C0AA1A24A407AA86401D2B79FA9FF84932DA798A942166D4
```

The code hash will correspond to the value found in the `EnclaveInstanceInfo.getEnclaveInfo().getCodeHash()` property
and the code signer will be `EnclaveInstanceInfo.getEnclaveInfo().getCodeSigningKeyHash()`.

!!! tip
    Make a note of the value of `Enclave code signer`. We will need it when we run the client to verify the enclave's identity from the client.

You can switch to debug mode by specifying the `enclaveMode` property. In debug mode the real hardware is used and
virtually everything is identical to how it will be in production, but there's a small back door that can be used
by debuggers to read/write the enclave's memory.

You will need to run this on an [Azure Confidential VM](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/confidential-computing/).

```bash
./gradlew -PenclaveMode=debug host:bootJar
```

## Write the client

The client app will do three things:

1. Connect to the host web server and download the `EnclaveInstanceInfo` from it.
1. Verify the enclave is acceptable: i.e. that it will do what's expected.
1. Send it the command line arguments as a string to reverse and get back the answer, using encrypted mail.

Actually, the first two steps are done for you when using an
[`EnclaveClient`](/api/-conclave/com.r3.conclave.client/-enclave-client/index.html) object. `EnclaveClient` handles the encryption and 
decryption of Mail for you and provides a simple interface for sending and receiving Mail. However, it doesn't know 
_how_ to transport the mail, which is where [`EnclaveTransport`](/api/-conclave/com.r3.conclave.client/-enclave-transport/index.html) 
comes in. Since we're connecting to the host web server, we'll be using
[`WebEnclaveTransport`](/api/-conclave/com.r3.conclave.client.web/-web-enclave-transport/index.html) as our transport.

Replace the client code at `client/src/.../ReverseEnclaveClient.java`

```java
package com.example.tutorial.client;

import com.r3.conclave.client.EnclaveClient;
import com.r3.conclave.client.web.WebEnclaveTransport;
import com.r3.conclave.common.EnclaveConstraint;
import com.r3.conclave.common.InvalidEnclaveException;
import com.r3.conclave.mail.EnclaveMail;

import java.io.IOException;
import java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets;

public class ReverseEnclaveClient {
    private static String DESCRIPTION = "Simple client that communicates with the ReverseEnclave using the web host.";
    private static String USAGE_MESSAGE = "Usage: reverse-client ENCLAVE_CONSTRAINT STRING_TO_REVERSE\n" +
            "  ENCLAVE_CONSTRAINT: Enclave constraint which determines the enclave's identity and whether it's " +
            "acceptable to use.\n" +
            "  STRING_TO_REVERSE: The string to send to the enclave to reverse.";

    private static String REVERSE_HOST_URL = "http://localhost:8080";

    public static void main(String... args) throws IOException, InvalidEnclaveException {
        if (args.length != 2) {
            System.out.println(DESCRIPTION);
            System.out.println(USAGE_MESSAGE);
        }

        EnclaveConstraint constraint = EnclaveConstraint.parse(args[0]);
        String stringToReverse = args[1];

        callEnclave(constraint, stringToReverse);
    }

    public static void callEnclave(EnclaveConstraint constraint, String stringToReverse) throws IOException, InvalidEnclaveException {
        try (WebEnclaveTransport transport = new WebEnclaveTransport(REVERSE_HOST_URL);
             EnclaveClient client = new EnclaveClient(constraint)) {

            client.start(transport);
            // TODO
        }
    }
}
```

The `constraint`, provided to the `EnclaveClient` constructor is the same constraint that we supplied when running the client
in [Running your first enclave](running-hello-world.md#run-the-client)

The client wants to receive a response from the enclave, and we want that to be encrypted/tamperproofed too. That means it
needs a key pair of its own. 

The complexity of dealing with private keys is conveniently hidden inside `EnclaveClient`. The
`new EnclaveClient(constraint)` line in the above code also creates a new random Curve25519 private key. If you
have an existing private key that you want to use, or want to manually create a new random key, then you could do
something like:

```java
PrivateKey myKey = Curve25519PrivateKey.random();
EnclaveClient client = new EnclaveClient(myKey, constraint);
```

!!! note
    Unfortunately the Java Cryptography Architecture only introduced official support for Curve25519 in Java 11. At the
    moment in Conclave therefore, you must utilize our `Curve25519PublicKey` and `Curve25519PrivateKey` classes. In
    future we may offer support for using the Java 11 JCA types directly. A Curve25519 private key is simply 32
    random bytes, which you can access using the getEncoded() method on PrivateKey.

### Sending and receiving mail

Now that we've connected to the host web server and verified we're communicating with the right enclave we can now
send it mail. This is done by calling `EnclaveClient.sendMail` and passing in the serialized bytes of the request
message. If the enclave responds back immediately with a mail of its own then that is returned by `sendMail`. We can
use all of this to fill in the missing piece in our client:

```java hl_lines="5 7-12"
public static void callEnclave(EnclaveConstraint constraint, String stringToReverse) throws IOException, InvalidEnclaveException {
    try (WebEnclaveTransport transport = new WebEnclaveTransport(REVERSE_HOST_URL);
         EnclaveClient client = new EnclaveClient(constraint)) {

        // Connect to the host and send the string to reverse
        client.start(transport);
        byte[] requestMailBody = stringToReverse.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8);
        EnclaveMail responseMail = client.sendMail(requestMailBody);

        // Parse and print out the response
        String responseString = (responseMail != null) ? new String(responseMail.getBodyAsBytes()) : null;
        System.out.println("Reversing `" + stringToReverse + "` gives `" + responseString + "`");
    }
}
```

The response we get back from the enclave is represented as an `EnclaveMail` object. We need the mail body which
contains the encoded reversed string.

!!! tip
    If you write your enclave such that it might respond back to the client later at some point then you can use the
    `pollMail` method to poll for responses. It will return `null` if there aren't any.

## Testing

There are two ways you can test the enclave: using a mock build of the enclave in tests defined as part of
your enclave project, or integrating enclave tests in your host project.

### Mock tests within the enclave project

Mock mode allows you to whitebox test your enclave by running it fully in-memory. There is no need for SGX hardware
or a specific OS and thus it is ideal for cross-platform unit testing.

Conclave supports building and running tests within the enclave project itself. When you define tests as part
of your enclave project, the enclave classes are loaded along with the tests. Conclave detects this
configuration and automatically enables mock mode for the enclave and test host. You do not need to explicitly
specify [mock mode](mockmode.md) for your project.

To use this functionality, simply create an instance of the enclave as usual by calling `EnclaveHost.load` inside your
test class.

```java
EnclaveHost mockHost = EnclaveHost.load("com.r3.conclave.sample.enclave.ReverseEnclave");
mockHost.start(null, null);
```

Conclave will detect that the enclave class is on the classpath and will start the enclave in mock mode. You
can obtain the enclave instance using the `EnclaveHost.mockEnclave` property.

```java
ReverseEnclave reverseEnclave = (ReverseEnclave)mockHost.getMockEnclave();
```

### Integrating enclave tests in your host project

When you want to test your enclave on real SGX hardware or in a simulated SGX environment **you need to define your tests
in a project separate from the enclave project.** A suitable place for your tests would be to define them as part of
the host project tests.

Add the conclave host as a `testImplementation` dependency in the project where your tests will be defined.

```groovy
dependencies {
    testImplementation "com.r3.conclave:conclave-host:$conclaveVersion"
}
```

Loading and testing the enclave on real hardware or in a simulated SGX environment is straightforward: the enclave needs
to be loaded with `EnclaveHost.load`. By default, this will run the tests in a simulated SGX environment and will require
the tests to be executed within Linux. In addition, testing on real hardware will require the tests to be executed within
Linux on a system that supports SGX.

```java
@EnabledOnOs(OS.LINUX)
public class NativeTest {
    private static EnclaveHost enclave;

    @BeforeAll
    static void startup() throws EnclaveLoadException {
        enclave = EnclaveHost.load("com.r3.conclave.sample.enclave.ReverseEnclave");
        enclave.start(new AttestationParameters.DCAP(), null, null);
    }
}
```

You'll notice that we annotated the test class with `@EnabledOnOs(OS.LINUX)`. This is from
[JUnit 5](https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#writing-tests-conditional-execution-os) and it will make sure
the native test isn't run on non-Linux environments.

The tests can use any enclave mode: release, debug, simulation or mock. Therefore, if you want to run your tests on
a non-Linux system then you can configure your tests to depend on a mock mode enclave instead. In this case, remove the
`@EnabledOnOs(OS.LINUX)` annotation from the above code.

!!! note
    Running your integration tests in mock mode is very similar to
    [Integrating enclave tests in your host project](#integrating-enclave-tests-in-your-host-project). In both cases
    the enclave code is loaded and run fully in memory. However, for integration tests, you can also choose to run
    the tests in modes other than mock, which is not possible for enclave project tests.

Running

```
./gradlew host:test
```

will execute the test using a simulation enclave, or not at all if the OS is not Linux. You can switch to a debug enclave
and test on real secure hardware by using the `-PenclaveMode` flag:

```
./gradlew -PenclaveMode=debug host:test
```

Or you can use a mock enclave and test on a non-Linux platform by removing `@EnabledOnOs(OS.LINUX)` and by running this
command:

```
./gradlew -PenclaveMode=mock host:test
```

!!! tip
    To run the tests in a simulated SGX environment on a non-Linux machine you can use Docker, which manages Linux
    VMs for you. See the [system requirements](enclave-modes.md#system-requirements) and instructions
    for [compiling and running the host](running-hello-world.md#beyond-mock-mode) for more
    information.
